## 财务运作

This section focuses on the financial operation of the NCAA—the national governing body most responsible
for shaping and controlling intercollegiate athletics in the United States (Covell & Barr, 2010) —and its
member conferences and schools. Discussions of financial issues in college sport focus primarily on NCAA
Division I programs, usually those in the Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS). To gain a thorough understanding
of the financial operations of college sport, however, we must undertake a broader examination. The NCAA
has 1,119 member schools. Of its active membership, 125 are Division I–FBS members, 125 are Division I–
Football Championship Subdivision (FCS) members, 95 are Division I–Other members (without a football
program or with a non-scholarship football program), 324 are Division II members, and 450 are Division III
members. The lower a school’s classification, the smaller and less complicated are the athletic department’s
revenues and expenses.

### National Collegiate Athletic Association

The NCAA has a net worth of $708 million (see Exhibit 14.1). Revenues for FY 2014 were $989 million (see
Exhibit 14.1), an increase of 8.4 % from 2013. (The NCAA fiscal year, September 1 to August 31, coincides
with the academic year.)

The primary sources of revenue (approximately 76 % ) were television and marketing rights fees.
Television revenue—specifically, the NCAA’s contracts with CBS, Turner Broadcasting, and ESPN—
provides most of the $754 million in fees. The NCAA sold the television broadcast rights for the Division I
Men’s Basketball Championship, along with other championship and marketing rights, to CBS and Turner
Broadcasting for $10.8 billion in 2010. The agreement has a term of 14 years, covering the 2011 through 2024
academic years. In 2014, the NCAA received $700 million from CBS and Turner. Exhibit 14.2 lists payments
the NCAA will receive for the remaining years of the contract (NCAA and Subsidiaries, 2014).

【】EXHIBIT 14.1 Financial statements for the NCAA.

Exhibit 14.2 also lists the payments the NCAA will receive from ESPN for television rights for certain fall,
winter, and spring championships; the NIT tournaments; and the international distribution of the Division I
Men’s Basketball Championship. The agreement between the NCAA and ESPN, reached in 2011, guarantees
the NCAA $500 million over 14 years, from 2010 to 2024 (NCAA and Subsidiaries).

The NCAA’s expenses in 2014 were $909 million, an increase of 6.6 % from 2013. The main expenses are
the distribution of revenues to member institutions, association-wide programs, and costs associated with
conducting championships (see Exhibit 14.1). The $547 million distribution to Division I members accounted
for 60 % of expenses in 2014 and represents an increase of $19.6 million, or 3.7 %, from 2013. Revenue is
distributed to Division I and Division II members annually.

The amount of money that each school receives is determined from a formula created by the NCAA. For
Division I members, funds are distributed based on seven criteria. The basketball fund distribution is based on
a school’s historical performance in the Division I Men’s Basketball Championship. Schools also receive
funds based on the number of sports they sponsor and scholarships they give. Funds are also granted to
institutions for the academic enhancement of student-athletes and provision of student-athlete opportunities.
The NCAA also provides conference grants and maintains a special assistance fund to assist student-athletes
in emergency situations (see Exhibit 14.3). Division II members receive a distribution based on the school’s
historic performance in the Division II Men’s and Women’s Basketball Championships and the number of
sports sponsored, plus an equal amount given to all active members. The total of Division II distributions in
2014 was approximately $13.9 million (NCAA and Subsidiaries).

【】EXHIBIT 14.2 NCAA television broadcast payments from CBS, Turner Broadcasting, and ESPN.

The NCAA spent $139.8 million conducting championships and running the NIT Tournament during the
2014 fiscal year, an increase of almost 1 % over 2013. Most was spent for Division I championships ($98.1
million). The amounts spent running Division II and Division III championships were close to equal
(approximately $20.8 million each).

### Conferences

Revenue distributed to member schools flows from the NCAA through the conferences (see Exhibit 14.3).
Each conference sets policy determining the amount of revenue that an individual school receives. The Big
XII, a Power 5 conference, has a fairly straightforward revenue distribution plan. Revenues received by the
conference are first used to pay for conference operating expenses and fund any established reserves. Next,
any NCAA subsidies received or member participation subsidies awarded for participation in post-season
competition are paid directly to the member institution. All remaining revenues are then divided among
members in equal portions, with the only adjustments made being related to broadcasts of games on permitted
member institution outlets (e.g., Longhorn Network).

#### Division I–FBS, Power 5 conferences

Exhibit 14.3 illustrates the financial strength of the major conferences. On average, in FY 2014 Power 5
conferences received $37.9 million in revenues from the NCAA, with a range of $31.7 million to $48.7
million. The five remaining Division I–FBS conferences, or the Group of 5 (American Athletic, C-USA,
MAC, Sunbelt, and Mountain West), received an average of $22.4 million, with a range of $11.6 million to
$44.7 million. Non-FBS conferences received an average of $8.8 million in revenue, ranging from $5.0
million to $18.7 million. Revenues from post-season bowl games and conference television networks further
strengthen the financial position of major conferences.

By reviewing conference tax filings (Form 990–Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax), we can
further examine the differences among conference revenues in Division I. First, we must note the difficulty of
making direct comparisons in collegiate sport between two similar organizations, as there is no standard for
reporting financials. Exhibit 14.4 through Exhibit 14.6 do, however, provide a basis for comparison. Exhibit
14.4 gives revenues and expenses for 2013 for two major conferences, the SEC and Big XII. From the
conferences’ tax returns, we can see that the Big XII reported its revenue in much greater detail than the SEC,
although we can directly compare revenue from media rights and post-season events. The Big XII earned
$70.6 million less from media rights than the SEC. It also earned $12.4 million less than the SEC from bowl
game, NCAA, and ticket sales revenue (the SEC lumps these revenues under “Post-season events”). Clearly,
the SEC was in the stronger financial position, as the conference’s revenue was $98.1 million more than that
of the Big XII.

In the SEC, schools on average received $21.0 million in revenue from the conference in 2013. This
amount doubled since 2007. The growth of revenues in the SEC has mirrored growth in the popularity of
college football and the resulting creation of conference broadcast networks. Revenues from television rights
fees accounted for 65 % of SEC member institution revenues. In the Big XII, television contracts accounted
for 61 % of member institution revenues. Because of the strength of their new media property, the SEC
Network, the SEC received an NCAA record of $455.8 million in revenue during the 2014/2015 fiscal year.
Each member institution received $31.2 million on average, an increase of $10 million over the previous year.
The Big XII, in comparison, distributed just over $250 million during its 2014/2015 fiscal year (McMurphy,
2015).

【】EXHIBIT 14.3 NCAA’s 2014 Division I revenue distribution plan

【】EXHIBIT 14.4 2013 revenues and expenses of two Division I–FBS Power 5 conferences.

Prior to 1984, the NCAA controlled the television rights for college football. In that year, the University of
Georgia and University of Oklahoma sued the NCAA, claiming that the NCAA’s control over broadcasting
violated the Sherman Act. The U.S. Supreme Court agreed that the NCAA’s actions violated Section 1 of the
Act (NCAA v. Board of Regents, 1984). After the ruling, most of the major football conferences and football
independents (Penn State and Notre Dame) joined together as the College Football Association (CFA) to
negotiate a collective television package for members. The Pac 10 and Big 10 negotiated their own television
contracts. By 1991, Penn State and Notre Dame had left the CFA in order to negotiate on their own. The CFA
was disbanded after the SEC left in 1995 to pursue an opportunity to increase its revenues through an
exclusive contract with CBS. (CBS had just lost its NFL television package to Fox.) After its television
contract was signed, total SEC disbursements to member schools increased from $45.5 million to $58.9
million. In 2008, the SEC considered following the Big 10 model with the launch of its own television
network; however, the league opted to sign an agreement with both CBS and ESPN. Its partnership with
ESPN and CBS brought the league $205 million per year in media rights revenues (Smith & Ourand, 2008).

The Big 10 created its own network in 2007 with partner News Corp. The conference’s 51 % ownership
stake in the network resulted in $66 million in new revenues during FY 2007. Over the lifetime of the
agreement, the Big 10 could average $112 million annually, with the fees paid to the conference expected to
rise over the lifetime of the deal. At the same time the Big 10 was launching its network, it signed a ten-year,
$1 billion national rights contract with ABC/ESPN. The Big 10 received $83 million during the first year of
the agreement (2008), with the rights fees expected to increase over the life of the contract. As a result of
these television agreements, total Big 10 revenue increased 39.8 % between 2006 and 2008, and distributions
to member schools increased 30.9 % (Broughton, 2008). Although the partnership with News Corp. for the
Big Ten Network (BTN) goes through 2032, its football and basketball agreements with ABC/ESPN and CBS
expire after the 2017 season (Sherman, 2015). It is expected that a new television rights deal will lead to Big
10 schools receiving over $45 million per year in revenues. League schools were expected to earn
approximately $21 million each in 2014 (Fornelli, 2014).

SEC Network was created in partnership with ESPN and grew out of its 2008 media rights deal with the
network. Following the Big 10’s lead and joining the Pac 12 conference in having its own branded network,
the ESPN-owned SEC Network launched in 2014 and will generate revenues for the conference through 2034.
At the end of the network’s first year, the SEC had generated $455.8 million in record revenues (McMurphy).

As the Big 10 and SEC illustrate, the earning power of a conference has a positive impact on its member
schools. Most of a conference’s revenue is distributed to its member schools (see Exhibit 14.4). In the SEC,
payments to member schools range from $20.9 million to $21.5 million. Though the Big XII earned less as a
conference in overall revenues in 2013, its member schools received revenue on par with those in the SEC,
with the exception of the Big XII’s two new member schools, TCU and West Virginia. As part of their
agreement to join the conference, the schools accepted a reduction in distributions during their first years in
the conference.

#### Division I–FBS, Group of 5 conferences

Exhibit 14.5 highlights the revenues and expenses of two Division I–FBS Group of 5 conferences: C-USA
and the Mountain West Conference (MWC). By comparing the revenues of the conferences in Exhibit 14.4
and 14.5, we can see the importance of media rights in generating conference revenue. All four conferences
compete at the same level, but not having their own networks or large media rights agreements for the
broadcast of football, basketball, and other sports affects overall conference revenue and, in turn, that of
member schools. Whereas C-USA received $10.4 million in television and marketing revenues and the MWC
reported no media revenues, the SEC received $210.4 million and the Big XII received $139.7 million. These
figures make it clear that the leveraging of games—primarily football and conference basketball games—
through a media rights deal is critical to conference revenue generation.

Exhibit 14.5 also illustrates the benefits of having 12 teams in a conference. With 12 teams, a conference is
able to play a football conference championship game under NCAA rules. C-USA and the MWC each have
12 football-playing members. The MWC clearly identifies revenues from its conference football
championships in its federal filing, at $1.7 million in 2013. Further, we can see the importance of quality
basketball programs. Without a guaranteed annual participant in a College Football Playoff game or a bowl
affiliated with the College Football Playoff, conferences must rely on teams from schools like the University
of Nevada–Las Vegas (UNLV) to generate revenues in the NCAA Men’s Basketball Championship
tournament. C-USA, being a stronger basketball conference in 2013, generated considerably more basketball
revenue than the MWC ($3.6 million). The better basketball being played in C-USA, coupled with its 12
member institutions sponsoring football, significantly improved the conference’s revenue. In 2013 C-USA
received $10.4 million in television revenue, which is only $2.7 million less than the total revenues received
by the MWC—although it is a small fraction of the $139.7 million in television revenue the Big XII received.

Exhibit 14.5 reveals another impact of a conference’s having a championship football game. When the
ACC expanded from 9 member institutions to 12 in 2004, a shift occurred across several Division I
conferences, including C-USA. In total, 23 teams changed conferences while Army became independent.
These changes created additional ripples and school affiliations have continued to change as of this writing.
As a result of these shifts, C-USA was making payments to several former conference members, as well as
current members (see Exhibit 14.5)

Exhibit 14.6 lists the revenues and expenses of the Atlantic 10 (A10) Conference. The schools of the A10
are Division I–FCS members, and the conference’s main sources of revenue are related to basketball, as
Exhibit 14.6 shows. The conference received $14.3 million from the NCAA for its men’s basketball
tournament appearances, more than either C-USA or the MWC received. As the A10 receives virtually no
football revenues compared to schools in Division I–FBS conferences, distributions to A10 member schools
are considerably less than the distributions to Division I–FBS member schools. The A10 lists only the total
distribution to its membership—$10.9 million in FY 2013. With 16 member institutions in 2013, that averages
to $683,000 per institution.

### Schools

The revenues that member schools receive from conference distributions are important, but they are a small
percentage of overall departmental revenues, according to Fulks (2014c). On average, distributions from the
NCAA and conferences account for only 19% of a Division I program’s general revenues. For schools in
major conferences, the largest portion of the athletic program’s revenues comes from football (see Exhibit
14.7). However, even with large revenues coming from the NCAA and conferences, and football revenues
supporting the overall athletic programs at major schools, it can still be difficult for these programs to earn a
profit. For an example of the financial difficulties that athletic departments face, read Sidebar 14.B, which
discusses the situation at the University of South Carolina.

【】Exhibit 14.5 2013 revenues and expenses of two Division I–FBS Group of 5 conferences.

【】EXHIBIT 14.6 2013 revenues and expenses of a Division I conference, non-FBS.

【】EXHIBIT 14.7 Michigan Athletic Department budget.

The financial difficulties at the University of South Carolina described in Sidebar 14.B are not uncommon.Brady, Berkowitz, and Schnaars (2015) note that more than 90 % of Division I athletic programs haveexpenses that exceed revenues on an annual basis. Fulks (2014c), in his annual examination of NCAArevenues and expenses, added that only 20 NCAA Division I–FBS programs were self-supporting during FY2013. He added that the median net revenue for the 20 schools was $8.4 million. For the FBS schools thatwere not self-supporting, the median loss was $14.9 million. Compounding the financial difficulties forschools is the fact that, although revenues are growing each year, expenses are growing faster, due toincreases in scholarship costs, escalating costs for football and men’s basketball coaches, and the costs ofbuilding new or renovating old athletic facilities.

#### Financial profitability

To examine an athletic department’s profitability is a challenging task. As mentioned earlier, the reporting of
financial data is not standardized. One institution’s method of recording revenues and expenses is likely
different from another institution’s. As a result, institutions often have difficulty comparing their financial
performance to benchmarks published by the NCAA. Another source of difficulty is that individuals
analyzing athletic department performance frequently treat revenues allocated to the department in varying
ways. For example, USA Today publishes on its website revenues and expenses of 230 Division I public
colleges and universities (see http://sports.usatoday.com/ncaa/finances/).* The data for FY 2014 show that 68
athletic departments lost money. One hundred and sixty-two schools reported a profit or broke even. These
results contrast with Fulks’ (2014c) statement that in FY 2013, only 20 Division I institutions (all FBS
schools) were self-sustaining.

Without examining the financial data, we would probably expect that a school affiliated with a major
conference would be in better financial standing than one that is not. An examination of only the net operating
surplus or net operating deficit (expense to revenue difference), however, would also be superficial. To understand the financial strength of an athletic department, we must examine revenue closely.

A quick glance at the revenues and expenses in the USA Today database shows that 69 schools lost money
in 2014. When we do this, however, we are looking only at the expenses to revenue differences for each
athletic department, while ignoring significant variations in the way departmental revenues were reported at
many of the schools in the study. Revenues are reported to the NCAA in two categories (Fulks, 2014c):
department-generated revenues are those revenues generated independently by the athletic department and its
programs; allocated revenues are revenues that the school transfers to the athletic department. These revenues
are not generated by the athletic department but given to the department by the institution or a governmental
entity. As Brady, Berkowitz, and Schnaars note, allocated revenues are bailouts by universities that enable
their athletic departments to balance their books. When Fulks (2014c) reported that 20 schools were self-
sustaining in 2013, he meant that the revenues generated by these athletic departments alone covered each
department’s operating expenses. These institutions did not need to allocate revenues to offset revenue
shortfalls in their athletic departments.

To understand the importance of allocated revenue versus department-generated revenues better, let’s
compare revenue and expense data submitted to USA Today for two athletic departments. Exhibit 14.9 lists
the revenues and expenditures for FY 2014 of Miami University (Ohio) and the University of California-Los
Angeles (UCLA), as reported by USA Today. Miami, a member of the Mid-American Conference (MAC),
had a net operating surplus of $680,662. UCLA, a member of the Pac 12, had net operating income of $0.
According to USA Today, 71.8% of Miami’s revenues were allocated revenues, while only 3.1% of UCLA’s
revenues were allocated revenues. If we remove allocated revenues from the analysis, Miami had $8.3 million
of operating revenues and $28.7 million in operating expenses, for an operating expense to revenue difference
of −$20.4 million. For UCLA, the expense to revenue difference is −$2.7 million. Hence, although the raw
data contained in the USA Today reports make it appear that the Miami athletic department was in the stronger
financial position, in reality the athletic department at UCLA was much stronger, as it could nearly cover its
operating expenses with its operating revenues, whereas Miami relied heavily on institutional support and
student fees to operate its department.

【】EXHIBIT 14.9 2014 revenues and expenses of two Division I-FBS universities

Moreover, both the USA Today revenue and expense reports and Fulks’ statement regarding self-sufficiency
neglect a significant expense: debt service on athletic facilities. Both Miami and UCLA report only operating
expenses and fail to include debt service and costs for replacement of facilities in expenses. The athletic
department budgets given in Exhibits 14.7 and 14.8 show the impact of these expenditures on profitability.
Michigan (see Exhibit 14.7) shows a net operating surplus of $5.1 million (operating expense to revenue
difference), while South Carolina (see Exhibit 14.8) shows a net operating surplus of $10.6 million. When
non-operating expenses are subtracted, South Carolina has a net increase of $358,000 in its operating surplus;
for Michigan, we now see a $1.9 million operating deficit. Considering debt service reduces profit further and
at times turns a profit into a loss. Based on analysis of these two budgets, we can conjecture that the number
of self-supporting Division I athletic departments is fewer than Fulks’ estimate.

#### Division I: School trends and performance

Exhibit 14.11 gives a breakdown of median revenues and expenses for Division I athletic departments by
subdivision. The median revenues are based on data collected for the 2004–2013 NCAA Revenues and
Expenses of Division I Intercollegiate Athletics Programs Report (Fulks, 2014c). For FBS schools, the median
revenue was $61.9 million, while the medians for FCS and non-football Division I programs (Other) were
$14.7 million and $13.1 million, respectively. It is important to note that there was not much difference
among the median values of total allocated revenues across all three subdivisions. The median was $11.5
million for FBS schools, $10.9 million for FCS schools, and $10.7 million for Other schools. The difference
in total revenue results from revenues generated by the athletic department. The median was $41.9 million for
FBS schools, $3.8 million for FCS schools, and $2.4 million for Other schools. Large differences in median
values among subdivisions are found in ticket sales, NCAA and conference distributions, cash contributions,
broadcast rights, and game day revenues (concessions/programs/novelties).

The median operating expense for an FBS school was $62.2 million; it was $14.5 million for FCS schools
and $14.0 million for Other schools (see Exhibit 14.11). Likely, the differences in expenses are tied to costs
associated with running FBS football programs. For example, the varying costs for scholarship football
players affected median values for scholarships across the three subdivisions. For the FBS, the median cost
was $8.7 million; for FCS schools, $4.2 million; and for Other schools, $3.9 million.

Guarantees, a fixture of FBS programs with seven home football games per season, have a median cost of
$1.2 million for FBS programs, compared to $60,000 for FCS schools and $27,000 for Other schools. The
cost of operating major programs, both football and basketball, is reflected in the median values of university-
paid salaries and benefits; we see a large difference in median values among subdivisions: $20.7 million for
FBS schools, $4.6 million for FCS schools, and $4.4 million for Other schools. The same can be said for
major differences in median expenses between FBS schools and the rest of Division I schools for team travel,
recruiting, game expenses, and facility maintenance and rental.

Fulks (2014c) also analyzed trends during a five-year span (2009–2013). He noted that from 2009 to 2013,
median revenues rose 35% for FBS schools, 21% for FCS schools, and 26% for Other schools. Expenses grew
on par with revenues for FBS and FCS schools during the same time frame, up 35% for FBS and 21% for
FCS schools. Expenses grew at a higher rate for Other schools, 33%. As a result, median losses remained
constant or grew across all three subdivisions.

The major sources of revenue during each of the five years of the study were ticket sales and contributions
from alumni and others. This was true across all three subdivisions. Similarly, two items were the major
expenses across the three subdivisions: grants-in-aid (or scholarships) and salaries and benefits. The author
noted that these two expenses make it difficult for athletic departments to control costs. As the cost of tuition
increases nationwide, the cost for providing scholarships correspondingly increases for all schools. In the case
of salaries and benefits, market demand for top coaches drives these costs. In 2013 the median FBS head
football coaching salary was $1.9 million. For basketball, the median FBS head coaching salary was $1.21
million for the men’s coaches and $374,000 for the women’s.

Fulks (2014c) also discussed programmatic trends. For FBS schools, total athletic expenditures as a
percentage of the total university budget grew from 4.6% in 2004 to 5.8% in 2013. For FCS schools, growth
was similar: 5.2% to 6.8%. For the schools in the “Other” category, expenditures have fluctuated as a
percentage of overall budgets, ranging from 4.5% to 6% over the same time frame. Generated revenues have
remained constant as a percentage of athletic department expenses for FCS schools at 25% and have dropped
to 18.0% for Other and 73.2% for FBS programs. These trends indicate that it is becoming increasingly
difficult for most athletic departments to maintain a high ratio of generated revenue to expenses—a measure
of self-sufficiency. Among FBS football and men’s basketball programs, between 50% and 60% reported
surpluses for each of the years from 2004 to 2013. For FCS football, 1% of programs reported a surplus in 2013, and for FCS men’s basketball the figure was 4%; 3% of men’s basketball programs in the “Other”
category reported a surplus. Overall, the FBS departments have a greater ability to generate revenues
compared to programs in the other two subdivisions. The FBS programs rely heavily on football revenues,
which generate 45.5% of their total revenues. At FCS schools, football generates 23.3% of total revenues.

【】EXHIBIT 14.11 Median operating revenues and expenses for Division I athletic departments by
subdivision.

#### Division II: School trends and performance

Exhibit 14.12 gives revenues and expenses for the average Division II program. Division II programs are
classified as either football or non-football. Like the Division I reports, the Division II reports provide
information on median revenues and expenses in each classification. For Division II programs with football,
the average generated revenues were $640,000, with allocated revenues adding $4.8 million. Non-football
program-generated revenues averaged $334,400, with allocated revenues adding $3.8 million. We can see
major generated-revenue differences between the two classifications in total ticket sales, cash contributions
from alumni and others, NCAA and conference distributions, and royalties/advertising/sponsorship. Under
allocated revenues, a total of $1.0 million more institutional support was provided for football programs than
non-football programs.

As with revenues, expenses were greater for Division II programs with football. Although scholarship costs
were only $205,100 higher for football programs, salaries were $520,400 higher for these programs.

Fulks (2014a) discussed trends in Division II athletic department financial operations. The benchmarks,
published in 2014, cover the 2013 fiscal year. Between 2004 and 2013, generated revenue fell from 17% to
12% for schools with football programs and from 9% to 7% for those without. Universities are, therefore,
making up the increases in Division II budgets through increases in allocated revenues. During the same
period expenditures increased for football schools from $2.9 million in 2004 to $5.6 million in 2013. For
those without football, expenditures grew from $2.2 million to $4.2 million over the same period. The average
operating loss for Division II schools grew during this time, as well. Operating losses (with direct institutional
support not included in revenues) increased $2.4 million for programs with football and $1.8 million for
programs without. These results indicate that Division II institutions were increasing their institutional support
at a greater rate than department-generated revenue was increasing. Therefore, the total rate of revenue growth
was inflated in order to offset increases in departmental expenditures. The impact on revenue growth of
increases in institutional support is evident, as 61% of revenue received by programs with football is direct
institutional support, while the figure is 67% for programs without football. As with Division I programs, the
two largest expense categories were grants-in-aid and salaries.

【】EXHIBIT 14.12 Median operating revenues and expenses for Division II and Division III athletic
departments by classification.

#### Division III—School trends and performance

Exhibit 14.12 also provides median expenses for Division III athletic departments, also classified as football
or non-football. As with the benchmark data for Division II programs, the most recent publicly available
Division III data cover the 2013 fiscal year (Fulks, 2014b). For programs with football, operating expenses
increased 109% from 2004. The increase was 131% for programs without football. As Division III schools
offer no grants-in-aid for athletes, major expenses were slightly different than for Division I and II programs.
Still, salaries and benefits was one of the two major expenses. For programs with football, the second largest
expense was indirect institutional support, and for programs without football, team travel was the second
largest expense category.