## 竞赛部门筹款

对 NCAA 收入和支出的分析表明，运营支出的增长速度高于运营收入的增长速度。事实上，一些大学管理者和校友对胜利的渴望，加上不断上涨的工资和奖学金成本，导致体育部门支出的增长速度超过了大学的整体增长速度。从 2004 年到 2011 年，经通货膨胀调整后，公立四年制大学在体育方面的支出在 NCAA 所有的部门增长了 24.8%，而每个大学生的整体支出增长了 1.6%（Lewin,2014）。这种增长导致学校越来越依赖分配的收入，特别是直接和间接的机构支持和学生费用。

然而，由于许多公立大学面临着国家拨款的削减，体育部门正面临着所依赖的分配资源的减少压力。像奈特校际体育委员会这样的组织一直在研究改革大学体育的方法，包括财政问题。大学体育的财政问题和许多体育项目的商业化问题是大学管理者、教师和学生的共同话题 (Lewin)。

在校园里，体育部门所分配资源减少的压力越来越大，发展部的工作人员必须想方设法通过捐赠来创造更多的收入。这些人员必须筹集越来越多的收入，不仅用于运营预算，而且还用于资助校园内新的体育设施。因此，体育筹款是至关重要的，因为通过发展办公室产生的资金将抵消体育部门不断增长的运营费用，并帮助减少该部门对分配收入的依赖。2014 年期间，最大的体育部门及其附属的助威俱乐部筹集了 12.6 亿美元（Wolverton & Kambhampati，2015）。这些钱的大部分是通过资本运动（capital campai）和年度捐赠计划等举措筹集的。

### 资本运动

Much of the money that athletic departments raise goes to offset the costs of new facilities and other capital
projects. Usually, when an athletic department needs to begin replacing its older facilities, the department will
initiate a capital campaign, an intensive effort to raise funds in a defined time frame through gifts and pledges
for a specific purpose. When infrastructure built with public funds need replacing, athletic departments
increasingly turn to fundraising. From 2004 to 2014, the amount of revenue generated by athletic departments
through fundraising doubled (Wolverton & Kambhampati, 2015). For example, Texas A&M raised $93.6
million in 2014, with a majority of the funding going to the renovation of Kyle Field. As another example,
Texas Tech University Athletics announced its Campaign for Fearless Champions on August 29, 2014, and
plans to continue it until 2020. The goal of the campaign is to raise $185 million, of which $160 million will
go toward capital support, $15 million toward endowment support, and $10 million toward ongoing support
through planned giving (Texas Tech University Athletics, 2014). From 2013 to 2015 Ball State University
conducted the Cardinal Commitment: Developing Champions campaign, a $20 million campaign to raise
funds to improve and expand athletic facilities. Michigan State University (MSU) Athletics is raising $262
million as its part in the university’s $1.5 billion capital campaign. MSU Athletics plans to raise $92 million
to improve facilities and $50 million to increase its endowment, and to achieve $120 million in elevated
annual giving.

体育部门筹集的大部分资金用于抵消新设施和其他资本项目的费用。 通常情况下，当一个体育部门需要开始更换旧设施时，该部门会发起资本运动，即在规定的时间内通过捐赠和认捐为特定目的筹集资金的密集活动。当用公共资金建造的基础设施需要更换时，体育部门会越来越多地转向筹资。从 2004 年到 2014 年，体育部门通过筹款产生的收入额翻了一番（Wolverton & Kambhampati，2015）。例如，德州农工大学在 2014 年筹集了 93.6million 美元，其中大部分资金用于凯尔球场的改造。又如，德州理工大学体育部于 2014 年 8 月 29 日宣布了 "无畏冠军运动", 并计划将其持续到 2020 年。该运动的目标是筹集 1.85 亿美元，其中 1.6 亿美元将用于资本支持，1500 万美元用于捐赠支持，1000 万美元用于通过计划捐赠进行持续支持（Texas Tech University Athletics,2014）。从 2013 年到 2015 年，波尔州立大学开展了 "红衣主教承诺"：通过开展冠军运动，计划募集 2000 万资本提高和扩展运动设施。密歇根州立大学 (MSU) 体育部正在筹集 2.62 亿美元，作为该校 15 亿美元资本运动中的一部分。MSU 体育部计划筹集 9200 万美元用于改善设施，5000 万美元用于增加其捐赠，并实现提升 1.2 亿美元的年度捐赠。

#### 立案

资本活动中最重要的要素之一是活动案例说明。案情陈述要回答所有与竞选活动有关的关键问题，并提出个人为什么应该支持活动的论点。根据 Kihlstedt(2009) 的说法，一个典型的案例陈述包括六个部分。

机构使命
成绩记录

未来的方向
迫切和持续的发展目标
实现未来目标的行动计划，以
机构的赞助

为了更好地理解这些部分，请查表14.13中展示的德州理工大学体育部门的 "无畏冠军 "资本运动的案例说明。

#### 重大捐赠规划

To reach a capital campaign goal, a development department needs to receive major gifts from program
supporters. Most development departments define a major gift as a donation worth $25,000 or more. The
number, size, and types of major gifts needed to reach a campaign goal are determined through various
mathematical formulae based on national giving patterns. A major gifts table is developed from these
formulae. Dove (2000) notes that a major gifts table demonstrates the importance of major gifts to a
campaign. Not only does the table provide an outline of the number and size of gifts needed to reach a
campaign goal, it also serves as a reality test for the organization. After the table is developed, the
organization can determine whether it indeed has enough prospective donors to reach the campaign goal.
Gift table rules. There are three major mathematical ways to create a major gifts table (Dove). The first
applies the 80/20 rule. This rule states that, based on past giving patterns, 80% of the needed funds will come
from 20% of the donors. Hence, for Texas Tech, $148 million of the $185 million total would come from 20%
of the campaign’s donors. Trends in giving seem to be shifting, however. Some development officers now
rely on the 90/10 rule, which states that 90% of the total money needed for a campaign will come from 10%
of the campaign’s donors. On this basis, for the Texas Tech campaign, $166.5 million would come from 10%
of those giving to the campaign.

【】EXHIBIT 14.13 Example case statement for Texas Tech University’s Campaign for Fearless
Champions, titled For Our Fearless Champions.

The third model uses the rule of thirds. According to this rule, the top ten gifts to the campaign will account
for 33% of the campaign’s total goal; the next 100 gifts will account for an additional 33%, and the remaining
gifts will account for the final third. For Texas Tech, $61.05 million would come from the top ten donors,
$61.05 million would come from the next 100 donors, and the remaining funds would come from the rest of
the campaign’s donors.
Traditional gifts table. All of these rules lead to campaigns developing similar major gifts tables, known as
traditional gifts tables.
For the $185 million Campaign for Fearless Champions, we would develop a traditional gifts table as
follows (see Exhibit 14.14):

The lead gift, or the largest single campaign gift, is set at 10% of the campaign goal—$18.5 million.
The amount of the next largest gift is set to half of the lead gift, or $9.25 million, and we double the number
of donors needed—i.e., we double one to get two.
The value of the next largest gift is half of the previous gift amount ($4.625 million), and the number of
needed donors is double the last number (4).
We continue this process until the campaign goal is reached.

It must be noted that the table does not always work, especially as giving trends appear to be changing. In
some instances, 10 to 15 donors have given 50% to 70% of the campaign totals. For some campaigns, the lead
gift is set at an amount less than 10% of the campaign goal because an analysis of potential donors reveals
little potential for a large lead gift. If the lead gift is set at a level less than 10% of the goal amount, there is a good chance that the campaign’s goal will not be reached, as the mathematical standards that were developed
based on actual past giving to campaigns will not have been met (Dove).

When finalizing the gift table, we must factor all known information regarding major gift possibilities into
its formulation. For example, if it is known that a donor plans to give a large portion of the campaign total at
the launch of the campaign, this gift must be factored into the table. Also, the number of gifts that the program
is seeking must be specified. Many athletic departments have conducted capital campaigns in part to endow
athletic scholarships. If a goal of a campaign is to endow twenty scholarships, there must be twenty $500,000
spots on the gift table. (This assumes that an average scholarship costs an athletic department $25,000.
Endowments generally pay at a 5% rate; therefore, $500,000 must be raised to endow each scholarship.)

Pre-campaign research. The goal of a campaign should be based on pre-campaign research to determine the
level of giving that alumni and friends of the athletic program can provide. Once the potential for giving is
determined, the campaign amount can be set and the gift table can be created. When setting a campaign goal
and creating the gift table, it is important to remember that it takes many donors to reach each level of giving.
Also, at each level of giving the gift table must match the donors’ potential for giving at those levels.

Development officers have observed that three or four legitimate prospective donors are required per gift at
each level of giving. For the Texas Tech campaign, three or four potential donors must have the ability to give
at least $18.5 million, or it is unlikely that Texas Tech will receive its lead gift. Six to eight must have the
potential to give $9.25 million, and so on. As we move down the chart, fewer prospects are required per gift.
The table in Exhibit 14.14 is based on this fact. At the lower levels of giving, we assume three prospects per
gift, rather than making the more conservative assumption of four per gift. This reflects a potential spillover
effect of donors from higher to lower giving levels. For example, if Texas Tech identified three potential
donors to give at the $18.5 million level, one of those donors might decide to give, but to give $14 million
rather than $18.5 million. This gift would be recorded at the $9.25 million level. Spillover from higher
categories into lower giving categories occurs often, so that fewer potential donors are needed at lower levels
of giving.

【】EXHIBIT 14.14 Traditional gifts table for a $185 million campaign.

#### Identifying major donors and prospects

In order to obtain major gifts, an organization must actively identify, cultivate, and solicit major donors.
Major donors have the following traits:

They often desire to provide opportunities that they did not have, to help the less fortunate, to improve
quality of life, and to help solve problems in society.
They tend to be very religious, have a strong belief in free enterprise, and be basically conservative.
They know someone in the athletic department or know something about the department, and they believe
in someone who is working for the department or believe in something that the academic institution or
athletic department represents.
They view giving as an investment and will want to see, or at least understand, the return on their
investment.
They have the resources to make a major gift. (Kihlstedt)

Knowing these characteristics of major donors, the athletic department can identify giving prospects.
Kihlstedt defines a prospect as “any individual, foundation, corporation, or organization that has the potential
to give and is likely to do so” (p. 189). When a donor has potential to give but little probability to give, the
development office must cultivate the donor and move him or her toward becoming a probable giver.
To identify and rate prospects, the research department will evaluate individuals who are affiliated with the
athletic department and determine who is capable of making a commitment to the capital campaign. The
researcher might begin with those who have previously given to the department. According to one
development officer, among all donors who give above $25,000, 75% first gave a gift of $250 or less to an
annual giving initiative. Further, 83% had made annual fund donations for at least five years, and almost 60%
had made annual fund donations for 11 years or more.

Kihlstedt summarizes the objectives and expected outcomes of the prospect research process. First, beyond
simply identifying prospects, research must determine these individuals’ relationships with other prospects
and with athletic department constituents. It must determine each prospect’s association with the department,
his or her previous levels of giving, and his or her interests in the department. It must also identify the
prospect’s wealth, ownership interests, control, and influence. Finally, the research staff must reduce this
information into reports that pertain to the current capital campaign.

The development staff uses these reports to rate potential donors and implement a strategy for action for
each—that is, a strategy for cultivating the prospect. The staff will determine which campaign items the
prospect will probably support and decide which department member is best suited to cultivate the prospect.
For example, suppose it is determined that a certain prospect is able and likely to give at the $2 million level.
The prospect played tennis at the institution and currently holds basketball season tickets. Also, the prospect
was an academic all-American. Based on preliminary research and information gathered through the
cultivation process, the development staff will determine at what level the prospect is likely to give and target
its solicitation of a gift based on that information. The staff might target this individual to give to a new academic enrichment center. A staff member overseeing academics would then be assigned to cultivate the
prospect. The staff will determine a timeline for cultivating the prospect. According to one development
officer, major gifts are usually closed after about nine meaningful contacts over a period of six months to two
years.

#### Asking for donations

After the prospect has been identified, researched, rated, and cultivated, he or she must be asked to give the
gift. Development officials hold varying opinions regarding when a prospect has been cultivated enough to be
likely to respond positively to an “ask.” A few officials feel it is best to ask for a gift right away, as the donor
probably knows that you intend to do so at some time. Others feel that a predetermined number of contacts
should be made prior to the request. Most state that you should ask when the time feels right.

Kihlstedt provides guidelines for asking for a major gift. First, the amount of money solicited must be
sufficiently large. Often, development officers will ask for gifts two to four times larger than the prospect’s
giving rating. It is easier to move down to an amount that is acceptable for the prospect than to discover later
that a prospect could have given more and try to obtain a higher commitment. Second, development officials
should listen during conversations. Suppose that in conversations, the prospect described previously mentions
over and over an affinity for basketball and asks questions relating to the basketball program’s needs. That
prospect would probably be more receptive to giving to basketball than to an academic center. The
development officer must be flexible in presenting alternatives if the conversation indicates that the prospect
may be more likely to give in an unexpected area.

### Annual Giving Programs

Capital campaigns are important to the long-term plans of athletic programs, but annual giving programs are
necessary to sustain operating revenues. For Division I institutions, contributions from alumni and others—the
third largest source of department revenue for the average FBS program and the largest for the other
classifications (see Exhibit 14.11)—is the fastest growing source of athletic department revenues. In 1965,
contributions from alumni and others accounted for 5% of the average Division I budget. This figure grew to
17% in the late 1990s, and it is now approximately 21%.

#### Athletic support groups

In most athletic departments, the athletic support group (ASG) or booster club is responsible for the annual
giving program. ASGs are usually operated as non-profit organizations, which are tax-exempt, and they are
separate legal entities from the college or university. They may also be operated as athletic department clubs.
The Gamecock Club, for example, is the University of South Carolina’s ASG. It is incorporated as a 501(c)(3)
public charitable organization. According to the club’s 2014 Form 990, the purpose of the Gamecock Club is
“to support the University of South Carolina’s Athletic Department by providing the necessary financial
resources for scholarships and other educational services.” Other successful ASGs, organized similarly,
include North Carolina State’s Wolfpack Club and the University of North Carolina’s Rams Club.

An individual’s level of giving to an ASG results in his or her club membership classification. The level
required for membership ranges from $100 to over $10,000. Members receive differing benefits based on their
giving level. For the most part, ASGs offer six to ten levels of membership, including student memberships.
For the Wolfpack Club, current students can join for $30 and enjoy benefits including a club T-shirt, online
access to The Wolfpacker magazine, the opportunity to purchase premium student seating at basketball and
football games, meetings with coaches and athletes, and a membership card. Non-students must pay a
minimum of $120 to join at the base level, called the Teammate Club. The highest level of membership, the
Lone Wolf level, requires a donation of at least $30,000. At this level, members receive a football and
basketball preview magazine, a membership package and card, a car decal, season ticket applications for
football and basketball, an option to purchase parking passes for athletic department events, and an invitation
to the “Pride of the Pack” celebration. In between are seven additional levels of membership, each with
differing benefits. The benefits increase with the amount given in a year. Donations to the Wolfpack Club, as
with all ASGs, are 80% tax deducti
The University of North Carolina’s Rams Club is structured similarly. Students can join for $25. Non-
students must pay $100 to become Tar Heel members of the club. The highest level is the Championship
level, for which members contribute at least $25,000. Again, benefits increase as giving increases. For Rams
Club members, one category is tied to endowed giving: the Scholarship level. To reach the Scholarship level,
a member must give $500,000 within five years to endow an athletic scholarship. The member then must make an annual contribution at the Coaches Circle level ($6,000) to maintain benefits.
