# 影响体育的财务和经济因素

许多因素影响体育经济学，但必须密切关注五个方面：（1）当前经济周期对体育的影响，（2）电视收入的影响，（3）体育团队与房地产持有之间的关系，（4）持久推动体育的可持续性以及（5）政治对体育治理的影响。

## Economic Cycle

The economic cycle is made up of four stages—growth, peak, recession, and recovery—and typically lasts just under six years. As the economy cycles through periods of growth and contraction, the sport industry is affected.

Economic growth occurs when the economy is increasing in real terms (faster than the rate of inflation).Evidence of economic growth includes increases in employment, industrial production, sales, personal income, and GDP. During periods of economic growth, the sport industry has benefited greatly, as during the 1990s. Most leagues, both major and minor, added teams; new leagues, such as the WNBA and ABL, were formed; and teams and athletic departments across the country spent billions constructing new stadiums and arenas.

When the economy contracts, either declining or growing at a rate that is not higher than inflation, it can enter a recession or depression. A recession occurs when GDP is negative for two consecutive quarters (six months) and usually lasts for six to 18 months. An economic depression is an extreme recession, lasting two or more years.

When the economy contracts, the sport industry is affected, as during the economic downturns of 2001 and 2007–2009. The sport industry relies on the discretionary income of spectators and participants, and as a result is sensitive to changes in the economy. From December 2007 to June 2009 (dates established by the Bureau of Labor Statistics), the United States experienced the Great Recession. The impact of this recession can be seen in the statistics for 2005 to 2015 for employment in the arts, entertainment, and recreation industry, of which sport is a major part (see Exhibit 1.8). As the economy entered the recession and spending slowed in December 2007, many jobs within the industry were shed. From December 2007 to December 2010, approximately 115,000 jobs were lost.

Not only did a slowdown in spending by spectators and participants affect jobs within the industry, but leagues also ceased operation (e.g., the AFL), teams declared bankruptcy (e.g., the Phoenix Coyotes) or ceased operation (e.g., the Columbia Inferno), construction slowed or stopped altogether, and sponsorship revenue declined. SportsBusiness Daily noted the following impacts of the Great Recession:

- The Dallas Cowboys failed to have a naming rights deal signed by the completion of their new stadium in 2009. Although companies were interested, they were not willing to pay the price the team was seeking.Four years passed before the naming rights were finally sold.
- MLB teams cut ticket prices in 2009, hoping to keep fans coming to ballparks despite an unemployment rate approaching 10% nationwide during the summer.
- Automotive advertising spending was down $100 million at the end of 2008 (“Economy Could Affect,” 2008).

Some sport organizations were more affected than others, and some industry segments were affected more than others. In the following sections, we will discuss several sport industry segments that have been especially sensitive to changes in economic conditions.

### United States Olympic Committee

When an economy slows, especially when the slowdown is coupled with a financial crisis, the renewal ofsport sponsorships is affected (Last, 2009)—and sport has become more reliant than ever on revenue fromcorporate sponsorships. For the United States Olympic Committee (USOC), this was especially true duringthe Great Recession. The USOC receives no direct government funding, unlike other National OlympicCommittees (NOCs) around the globe. Therefore, the USOC relies heavily on corporate support, andsponsorship revenue accounted for 45% of its $150 million budget in 2009. Unfortunately, in 2008, as therecession was deepening, most USOC sponsorship agreements expired following the Summer OlympicGames. Several corporations ended their sponsorships. Home Depot and Bank of America did not renew their16-year sponsorships, and General Motors, a sponsor since 1984, did not renew. Kodak, which had beenassociated with the Olympic Games since 1896, ended its sponsorship, too. John Hancock also decided not torenew its sponsorship, although the company had been an Olympic sponsor since 1994. Each sponsorshipagreement was worth between $4 million and $5 million on average per year. Considering the sponsorshiplosses from these companies alone, the USOC had to replace more than $16 million and as much as $20million in annual revenue. Additional losses in revenue occurred, too. For example, Anheuser-Busch agreedto return as a sponsor, but it lowered the level of its commitment (Macur, 2009; Pells, 2009).

As the economy began to recover, the USOC added BP, Procter & Gamble, and Deloitte as sponsors priorto the 2010 Vancouver Olympics, thereby offsetting some of the earlier losses (Mickle, 2010). By the 2012Summer Olympic Games, as the effects of the Great Recession waned, the USOC added new sponsorsKellogg’s and DeVry through 2016 and renewed BP and Nike. Combined, these sponsorship agreements wereworth $38.8 million (Mickle, 2012). Chobani, Budweiser, and AT&T also renewed their agreements. In all,the USOC has 26 domestic sponsors.

### Collegiate athletics

College athletics has also been significantly affected by changing economic conditions. For example, as theeconomy expanded during the late 1980s and through the 1990s, Stanford University built its athleticdepartment endowment to over $500 million. In 2008, when the financial markets collapsed, Stanford saw thesize of the endowment shrink 20% to 30%. As a result, the university eliminated 21 athletic department staffpositions and reduced the department’s budget by $7 million.

Stanford was not alone in cutting sports during the latest recession. Prior to the 2009/2010 academic year,30 NCAA schools did so, as well. The University of Washington eliminated men’s and women’s swimming,and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology cut eight teams. Although the University of Cincinnati did notdrop programs, it eliminated scholarship funding for three men’s sports teams.

One aspect of college sports that did not appear to have been affected by the recession was coachingsalaries. From 2007 to 2014, men’s head basketball coaching salaries increased 102%, increasing 93% forhead football coaches. Even coaches of smaller teams saw increases in pay. Tennis coaches, for example, saw their pay increase 20% over the same period (McGregor, 2014). Despite the overall increases in salary, not allcoaches were unaffected by the economy. In 2009, for example, coaches from Arizona State University, theUniversity of Arizona, Clemson University, and the University of Wisconsin took unpaid furloughs(Schlabach, 2009).

Some observers feared that economic slowdowns would further increase the disparity between the largerNCAA Division I–FBS schools and the smaller ones (Schlabach). This seemed to be the case in 2009, whennot all athletic departments were affected by the downturn. Although most schools experienced a decrease inticket revenue for 2009, larger programs were able to offset those losses. The University of Georgia expectedticket revenue for football to be down $2.5 million to $3.0 million in 2009. The university, however, had justsigned an eight-year, $92.8 million marketing and media rights contract. Further, as a member of the SEC, theschool received $11 million from the conference in 2009 and expected to receive an additional $6.2 million in2010 as a result of the conference’s new television contract with CBS and ESPN. Other examples of largerschools not experiencing significant impact from economic downturns include the University of Michigan’sathletic department, which enjoyed a $9 million surplus at the end of fiscal year 2008. Also in 2008, theUniversity of Florida was able to increase its athletic budget by $5.9 million, and the University of Texas’football program generated $73 million in revenue during the 2008 football season (Schlabach).

For most big-time college athletic programs, the recession only temporarily slowed growth in budgets.Some colleges have used new funds to add sand volleyball teams. As a result, NCAA Divisions I–III haveapproved the sport for NCAA championship status. Twelve new college football teams began play in 2013,and 11 more athletic departments added teams over the following three years. Further, with the addition of thenew College Football Playoff in 2014, bowl game payouts grew post-recession to just over $505 million, anincrease of approximately $200 million per year. This growth was due mostly to increases in the media rightsfees associated with the six bowls and national championship game belonging to the College Football Playoff(“College bowl payouts,” 2015). Finally, colleges raised a record $1.26 billion for their sports programs in2014, the third year since 2011 that donations were above $1 billion. In 2014, 20 athletic departments raised acollective $700 million, which is just over half of the total raised during the year (Wolverton & Kambhampati,2015).

### Women’s professional sports

Women’s professional sports are extremely sensitive to changes in the economy (Kreidler, 2009). Forexample, after the 2008 season ended, the Houston Comets of the WNBA folded. The Comets were one of theleague’s most successful franchises and one of six teams not owned by NBA-affiliated parties (see “CaseAnalysis: The Growth of a League” at the end of the chapter). The team’s demise created fear within theleague and among its followers that NBA owners—who owned eight of the 13 teams remaining in the leagueat the time—would shut down teams that were not making money (or even possibly the league itself) inefforts to cut costs, as several NBA franchises were having financial difficulties. However, the only additionalWNBA team to fold during the Great Recession was the Sacramento Monarchs. The Atlanta Dream wasadded to replace the Houston Comets, and the Detroit Shock moved to Tulsa in 2010. Overall, the WNBA lostonly one franchise.

The Ladies Professional Golf Association (LPGA) also struggled during the Great Recession. The LPGAhad difficulties renewing sponsorships as the recession began. This led to a decrease in the number of tourstops, from 37 events in 2008 to 29 in 2009. The financial situation became so bad that tour players removedLPGA Commissioner Carolyn Bivens from her position, replacing her with Michael Whan in January 2010.At the height of the recession, in 2010, the LPGA tour held only 24 events. As the economy improved, eventswere added back to the LPGA schedule, and by 2014 there were 33 tour events.

Part of the LPGA’s post-recession growth strategy was to diversify while focusing on international markets(Barragan, 2014). Of the nine events added between 2010 and 2014, four were added overseas; eighttournaments are now held in Asia. As a result of its international growth, the LPGA was able to increase itssponsorship base, adding Kia (South Korea), Sime Darby (Malaysia), Lotte (Japan/South Korea), andSwinging Skirts (Taiwan)—a non-profit organization of amateur golfers.

### NASCAR

NASCAR also has proven vulnerable to changing economic conditions. Of the major North American sportleagues, NASCAR was affected the most by the Great Recession, mainly because of sponsorship losses andthe impact of higher gasoline prices.

Just prior to the recession’s beginning, a top NASCAR team had to generate between $20 million and $25million in revenues per year, of which $15 million to $20 million would come from the team’s primary sponsors. When the economy slowed, sponsors became hard to find (Newton, 2008).

As the economy slowed and sponsor opportunities vanished toward the end of the 2007 season, PettyEnterprises, one of the best known and most historic NASCAR teams, explored the idea of merging its teamwith another team or selling to another team (Caraviello, 2007). The team had won 268 races between 1949and 1999 but could no longer afford to compete. In another example, Chip Ganassi Racing shut downoperation of its number 40 car during the 2008 season. The team could not find a sponsor for the car anddecided to focus its efforts on its two remaining cars.

At the same time, higher gasoline costs affected NASCAR more than other leagues (Klayman, 2008). ManyNASCAR fans travel long distances to see races, often traveling in recreational vehicles. High gasoline costsaffected the ability of some fans to drive to the races. In 2008, the average percentage drop in ticket sales atNASCAR Sprint Cup races was in the mid–single-digit range as gas prices reached $4 per gallon.

Since the recession ended, Sprint Cup sponsorship has grown slowly, while the cost of fielding acompetitive team has remained in the $20 million to $25 million range (Ryan, 2014). However, attendanceand television ratings have yet to rebound to pre-recession levels (Pockrass, 2014). NASCAR’s biggestchallenge moving forward is finding a new sponsor for its premiere series. After the 2016 season, Sprint willbe leaving as the title sponsor of the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series. NASCAR will be looking for a sponsorwilling to spend between $70 million and $75 million annually.

## Television Revenue

Another important factor in sport finance is television revenue. It is a guaranteed form of revenue, with long-term contracts in place between leagues, conferences, teams, and networks. Fortunately for sport teams andleagues, television revenues somewhat insulate the industry from short-term slowdowns in the economy, suchas the recession of 2007–2009. For example, the NFL’s television contracts extended through the 2011season, while MLB’s ran through 2013 and the NBA’s went through 2016 (Last, 2009). The annual values ofthese contracts were $1.9 billion, $696 million, and $930 million, respectively.

Post-recession, long-term contracts will likely continue to provide protection. The English Premier League(EPL) sold its British television rights for $7.8 billion for the years 2016 to 2018 (Scott, 2015). The NFL’scurrent contracts extend through the 2022 season, while MLB’s run through 2021, and the NBA’s extendfrom 2016 through 2025. The annual values of these contracts are $4.9 billion, $1.55 billion, and $2.66billion, respectively.

These figures do not include revenues from international broadcast rights, the Internet, or satellite/cableleague packages. For example, the EPL sold its U.S. rights to NBC for $250 million per year through the endof the 2015/2016 season. The NFL receives $1.5 billion per year from DirecTV for exclusive rights to NFLSunday Ticket, a package of out-of-market Sunday games, with a contract extending through 2022. MLB,tapping new revenue streams via its various digital media platforms, is expected soon to gross $1 billion inrevenues (Brown, 2015).

At the collegiate level, the SEC extended its 15-year, $2.25 billion television contract with CBS and ESPNin 2014. At the same time, it created with ESPN the SEC Network. The league’s new television package willlast for 20 years and is worth $400 million annually (Glass, 2014).

Television revenues have also provided NASCAR with some insulation. Even with attendance down attracks and ratings in decline, the league was able to sign a ten-year agreement with NBC and Fox for $8.2billion. The contract runs through 2025 (Pockrass, 2013).

## Real Estate

The development of real estate surrounding sport venues has become a popular means to generate additionalrevenue. As teams in some communities have found it more difficult to fund stadiums and arenas with publictax dollars, teams have turned to real estate development to help meet the debt service for privately financedfacilities. The most successful example is L.A. Live. This development, which encompasses 27 acressurrounding the Staples Center in Los Angeles, features complementary entertainment venues, includingbroadcast studios, restaurants, movie theaters, music clubs, and the Grammy Museum. The AnschutzEntertainment Group owns both the development and the Staples Center, as well as the Los Angeles Kings ofthe NHL and a portion of the Los Angeles Lakers. Both the Kings and the Lakers play home games in theStaples Center. L.A. Live has long-term leases with ESPN, Ritz Carlton, Regal Theaters, and the GrammyMuseum, to name a few (Van Riper, 2009). Other successful examples of real estate developments aroundsport venues include Xfinity Live! in Philadelphia, Fourth Street Live! in Louisville, and Baltimore’s PowerPlant Live!

Several team-owned real estate developments struggled or were delayed during the Great Recession. The Tampa Bay Lightning’s ownership group was to develop 5.5 acres around the arena after it purchased thefranchise in 2008. During 2009, however, the team lost money after debt service and was unable to breakground on the development. The Westgate Entertainment District in Glendale, Arizona, anchored by the GilaRiver Arena—home to the Arizona Coyotes—lost many shops and restaurants after the recession began. TheDallas Cowboys and Texas Rangers, which shared land in Arlington, Texas, had been set to develop GloryPark—a 1.2-million-acre parcel of housing, hotels, automobile dealerships, stores, and restaurants—butduring 2008 the development was put on hold, with no deadline for breaking ground. (It must be noted thatthe Lightning and the Rangers are both highly leveraged, with the Rangers having a debt to franchise valueratio of 66%.) As a result of the delays on Glory Park, the Cowboys carry $623 million of debt on the team’snew stadium (Van Riper).

As the economy has improved, many stalled projects are finally being completed. The Lightning havebegun development of their entertainment district, the Detroit Red Wings have incorporated a stadium districtin the plans for their new arena, and the New York Islanders moved to Brooklyn to participate in the BarclaysCenter and Pacific Park district (Baker, 2015).

## Sustainability

When sustainability or sustainable development is discussed today, it is typically in relation to the “green”movement. However, sustainability and venue construction and usage have been topics of discussion in thesport industry for many years. The 1987 Brundtland Report defined sustainability as meeting today’s needswithout compromising future generations’ ability to meet their own needs. In sport, the glut of sport arenasbuilt for mega-sporting events such as the Olympics or World Cup and even the overbuilding of  publiclyfinanced arenas in metropolitan areas have been questioned.

Previously, the New York City metropolitan area had five sporting arenas, with three of the five losingmoney: Izod Center, Prudential Center, and Nassau Coliseum. In New Jersey, the Devils left the Izod Centerfor the new, publicly subsidized Prudential Center and then asked the state to demolish the Izod Center inorder to eliminate competition for events from the older arena. Further, it offered $2 million for the buildingto be closed. Officials from New Jersey announced the closing of the facility in March 2015, after a plannedperformance by the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus (Sherman, 2015). The Izod Center, run bythe New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, was also the home of the Nets. The Devils attempted toconvince the Nets to move with them to the Prudential Center, in hopes that the newer arena would host moreevents and become profitable. However, the Nets moved to the new Barclays Center in Brooklyn. Meanwhile,Madison Square Garden underwent a $1 billion renovation, and the New York Islanders decided to leave theNassau Coliseum for Brooklyn. When all five arenas were in operation, there were 100,000 seats to fill on anightly basis within a 30-mile radius—not including the remaining stadiums and the performing artscomplexes and theaters operating in the area (Bagli, 2009). Of the arenas still operating, Madison SquareGarden has three anchor tenants, Barclays Center two, Prudential Center one, and Nassau Coliseum none.With an estimated 200 event dates needed per year to produce a profit, these four arenas are expected tostruggle financially as they compete for event dates with each other. The Izod Center, the first casualty of thecompetition, lost both of its anchor tenants and saw the number of concerts held at the venue fall to eight toten per year, down from 18 to 24 before Barclays and Prudential opened (Sherman).

Many other cities have experienced similar problems with sustainable development, though on a muchsmaller scale than New York’s. Glendale, Arizona’s Gila River Arena is losing money and must compete forevents with Phoenix’s US Airways Center and Arizona State’s on-campus Wells Fargo Arena. In Minnesota,the Target Center, owned by the City of Minneapolis, competes directly with the Xcel Energy Center in St.Paul, a publicly subsidized facility. Both facilities have lost money in the past. Finally, in Columbus, Ohio,the NHL’s Blue Jackets sold money-losing Nationwide Arena to the Franklin County Convention FacilitiesAuthority in 2012 for $42.5 million (Caruso, 2012). Nationwide Arena competes for events with Ohio State’sSchottenstein Center (Bagli).

Questions regarding the sustainable development of venues have also been raised in connection withOlympic sport. The Chinese government spent $43 billion on the 2008 Summer Olympic Games; however,many of the venues constructed for the Games proved to be too big and too expensive for the ongoing hostingof events. The National Stadium (Bird’s Nest) had only one event scheduled in 2009 and since that time hasbeen used for little more than venue tours. With no anchor tenant, maintenance costs still amount to $11million per year (Weissmann, 2012). The facility’s operators have tried to generate some revenue by erectinga snow park on the infield and creating a Segway racetrack. A baseball stadium that opened in spring 2008 hasalready been demolished.

According to Matheson (2008), the Olympics became an economic disaster for the Chinese, as sport-related infrastructure projects led to little long-term economic growth. Improvements to airports, highways, andtransit systems that were needed during the Games will provide long-term benefits, but the sportsinfrastructure cannot easily be converted to other uses.

Beijing is not alone in experiencing losses from unused facilities constructed for hosting specificinternational events and their attendees. Of the ten new stadiums built in South Korea to host the 2002 WorldCup, most are unused today. Montreal finished paying for its Olympic Stadium 30 years after hosting the1976 Games. The facility was largely unused when debt obligations were finally met. Full-service hotels inLillehammer, Norway, built to handle the influx of visitors for the Games, struggled after the 1994 WinterOlympics. Forty percent had gone bankrupt a few years after the Games ended.

## Politics

Since Federal Baseball (1922), the case in which the U.S. Supreme Court held that MLB is not subject to theSherman Antitrust Act, sport and government have been intertwined. Changes in the nation’s political climatecan have a significant impact on the industry. NASCAR, for example, benefited from its relationship withseveral members of Congress after Congress passed the financial services bailout bill in 2008. The billincluded language that classified motorsports facilities as “amusement parks and other entertainmentcomplexes.” Hence, track owners could depreciate the cost of new fixed assets over a 7-year period ratherthan a 15-year period, and taxes paid by track owners would be reduced in the years immediately followingthe capital expenditures (“Bailout Bill Includes,” 2008).

Changes to the depreciation schedule positively affected NASCAR. However, some potential laws debatedin Congress could have a devastating impact on the sport industry. Important examples are legislativeproposals relating to corporate sponsorships, the regulation of the cable industry, and changes to U.S. tax law.

### Proposed legislation affecting corporate sponsorships

Former Senator John Kerry proposed the TARP Taxpayer Protection and Corporate Responsibility Act earlyin 2009 after celebrity website TMZ posted a story questioning the use of taxpayer funds at the Northern TrustOpen (Newport, 2009). The Act would have prevented any Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) recipientfrom hosting, sponsoring, or paying for entertainment events unless the company receives a waiver from theTreasury Secretary (“Secretary of Golf,” 2009). The TMZ story stated that Northern Trust, recipient of $1.6billion from TARP, held lavish parties, fancy dinners, and concerts with famous singers. Soon afterpublication of this story, former Representative Barney Frank sent a letter to Northern Trust, co-signed by 17additional representatives, demanding that the company return the $1.6 billion. Columnists across the politicalspectrum, including Maureen Dowd and Bill O’Reilly, joined in the criticism (Newport). Ignored in the stormof criticism were the business benefits that the sponsorship brought to Northern Trust, such as providingaccess to decision makers in business, reaching potential new customers, and increasing the firm’s visibility.

Soon after the TMZ publication, Morgan Stanley, recipient of $10 billion in TARP funds, and Wells Fargo,recipient of $25 billion, announced changes to their golf sponsorships. Morgan Stanley decided to remain asponsor of the Memorial Golf Tournament, but company executives did not entertain clients at the event.Wells Fargo, owner of Wachovia, reduced its presence at the Wachovia Championships held outsideCharlotte, North Carolina, and temporarily renamed the tournament the Championship at Quail Hollow(Newport).

When this legislation was proposed, the banking industry was spending $900 million per year on sportssponsorship rights fees and $122.3 million annually on sports advertising. Although Congress did not passlegislation restricting sponsorship spending, the impact of the outcry in Congress was damaging. Similarcomplaints relating to “extravagant” spending by TARP recipients decimated the Las Vegas economy. Shortlyafter Barney Frank criticized Northern Trust, Wells Fargo, Citigroup, and US Bancorp canceled events,including employee events, in Las Vegas to avoid drawing attention from Congress. Even though studies haveshown that there are benefits to employee reward programs, banks backed off the programs and eithercanceled them or moved events from destination locations such as Las Vegas to lower-profile cities, such asCleveland or St. Louis (Nicklaus, 2009).

While legislation to restrict sponsorship spending was being proposed and financial institutions were beingcriticized for their “extravagant” sponsorship spending, the sport industry did little to support its partners(Lefton & Mickle, 2009). The sport industry must provide better support to its corporate backers or potentiallyface major losses of revenue. This happened to the hospitality industry in Las Vegas. There, the impactresulting from Congress’s actions was staggering. During the first 90 days of 2009, 340 events werecancelled, costing the local economy $131.6 million in non-gambling spending. Contributing to the pulloutfrom Las Vegas was a statement by President Obama that companies should not go to Las Vegas on the taxpayer dime (Spillman, 2009). Although sport sponsorship revenue is somewhat protected by the long-termnature of many sponsorship contracts, Lefton and Mickle argue that the sport industry must be proactive toprotect the billions per year in sponsorship rights fee revenue that teams and leagues receive.

### Proposed legislation related to the cable television industry

Legislation restricting sponsorship would certainly affect the sport industry negatively, but changes to theregulation of the cable television industry could have even more profound consequences. In 2004,Congressman Nathan Deal introduced the Video Programming Choice and Decency Act of 2004. This Act’spurpose was the reregulation of the cable television industry. Under Deal’s proposal, consumers would beguaranteed the choice of purchasing individual cable channels (à la carte pricing) rather than being forced topurchase a bundled package of channels. Supporting Deal and calling for change were the Concerned Womenfor America, the Parents Television Council, the Consumers Union, and the Consumer Federation of America(Weiner, 2009).

Since the 1984 Cable TV Act, cable companies have determined which channels are included in a bundle ofpackages (Weiner). The cable companies pay the cable channels based on the number of subscribers to abundled package. Rates are set in negotiations between the channel and the cable company. As demand for achannel increases, the channel’s owner can charge the cable company more. For example, in 2014 ESPNcharged cable and satellite operators an average of $6.04 per month per subscriber. This does not include thecost for ESPN2, the eighth most expensive cable channel, at $0.74 per month. It is estimated that by 2018 thecost for ESPN alone will be $8.38 per month (Molla, 2014). ESPN uses this subscription revenue to outbidleading sport programming competitors for the best sport properties. Terrestrial networks (as opposed tosatellite or cable) CBS, Fox, and NBC must rely solely on revenues from advertisers. ESPN was able tooutbid Fox by $100 million for the rights to carry the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) from 2011 to 2014(Sandomir, 2008). The cable network then, in an exclusive negotiating window, agreed to pay $5.64 billion tobroadcast the College Football Playoff (CFP) from 2014 through 2025 (Hinnen, 2012).

If Congress reregulates cable and allows consumers to choose channels on an individual basis, the potentialimpact on ESPN’s business model is unknown. Of the close to 100 million subscribers who receive thechannel as part of a basic cable package, how many would be willing to pay for the channel if given thechoice? If only half pay for the channel, how much would ESPN have to raise the subscription price to offsetthe loss in subscribers? Then, if the rate increases, how many additional consumers would decide not to paythe higher monthly rate for ESPN?

Television, ticketing, and sponsorships are the main revenue sources for many sport organizations. Alegislative change to the business model of cable television might have a profound impact on the televisionrevenue of all sport organizations. Consider that ESPN currently owns or shares the rights to Monday NightFootball, the College Football Playoff, various collegiate properties, MLS, MLB, portions of three tennismajors, and golf’s Masters Tournament and British Open. If ESPN’s business model changes, the possibleimpact on rights fees is unknown— but if ESPN loses revenue and the ability to outbid competitors, theimpact on the sport industry could be significant.

Senator John McCain has been supporting legislation that would allow consumers to select their cablechannels à la carte (Ozanian, 2013). The Television Consumer Freedom Act was designed to lower cable costsso consumers who did not wish to purchase high-cost sport channels could choose not to. That bill did notpass. Congress, however, began discussing an overhaul of communications law in 2015, possibly including amove to à la carte pricing. More recently, Canada mandated à la carte pricing beginning in 2016(D’Alessandro, 2015). The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission ruled that,beginning in December 2016, satellite and cable providers must allow consumers to purchase a basic packageof channels and then allow them to choose additional channels à la carte. The basic service would includelocal and educational channels and cost no more than $20 per month. Consumers would then be able tochoose from individual channels or bundles containing a few channels.

### Changes to tax law

Several potential changes to tax law could affect the sport industry in the United States. President Obama hasproposed the elimination of the use of tax-exempt bonds to finance professional sport arenas and stadiumconstruction. Part of his 2016 budget, the President’s proposal would save taxpayers an estimated $146million (Povich, 2015). Congress, of course, has the final say. In the past 25 years, 22 NFL teams have playedin venues built or renovated with tax-free bonds. An additional 64 teams across the NBA, MLB, and NHLcurrently play in stadiums or arenas financed in the same manner. It is estimated that tax-free subsidies forthese venues have cost taxpayers $4 billion since 1986. If the tax subsidies were eliminated, the cost of borrowing would increase, and the cost of building new venues would increase, as well (see Chapters 3, 7,and 9).

Another provision in President Obama’s budget proposal would eliminate the tax break that college sportticket holders receive (Collins & Rubin, 2015). Currently, fans who pay a donation to receive tickets to acollege sporting event can deduct 80% of the donation on their federal tax return. These donations are usuallymade to the athletic support group (ASG) and the university (see Chapter 14). In his budget proposal,President Obama estimated that the elimination of the deduction would generate $2.5 billion over the next tenyears in higher taxes.

Since 2001, the so-called jock tax has been applied in more and more jurisdictions (see Chapter 15). WhenMichael Jordan won his first NBA Championship in Los Angeles, the California Franchise Tax Board notifiedJordan that he would owe state income taxes for the days he spent in California playing in the finals. The State of Illinois then created its own tax, known as “Michael Jordan’s Revenge,” taxing athletes who live in otherstates but play games in Illinois. The practice of taxing athletes who live out of state but play within the stategrew. It has been estimated that in 2012, professional athletes playing in California contributed $216.8 millionin tax revenues for the state (Cicalese, 2015).

Changes in tax law are often instituted to facilitate changes in the way industries conduct business. Currenttax law in the United Kingdom, for example, may limit the further globalization of sport, as it may limit thecontinued expansion of the NFL, NHL, and NBA into London if it is not changed. The NFL, for example, hasplayed games in London consistently since 2007 and may be considering relocating a team to that city. Underthe U.K.’s tax code, non-resident athletes can be taxed not only on the salary they earn while playing inLondon but also on their worldwide endorsement income. Typically, endorsement income is taxed only in theathlete’s home country, but both the United Kingdom and the United States tax the total endorsement incomeof any athlete who plays on their soil.

In the United Kingdom, non-resident athletes are taxed on endorsement income based on the ratio of thenumber of days spent training and competing in the country versus the number of days spent training andcompeting outside the country. The tax rate on this income could reach as high as 45% (the United Kingdom’smaximum tax rate in 2015). Currently, NFL players who compete in only one game in London are not greatlyaffected, and they can take a foreign tax credit on their U.S. income tax return for any taxes withheld by theUnited Kingdom.

If the NFL were to move a team to London, the amount of tax owed by players on that team would becomea significant issue. With 8 to 12 games being played by the team in London, about half of a player’s salarycould be taxed at the United Kingdom’s maximum rate of 45%. In the United States, the maximum tax rate in2015 was 39.6%. Since the foreign tax credit benefit is limited to the income tax filer’s U.S. tax rate, a playerwhose team is based in London would pay more in taxes than a player whose team is based in the UnitedStates. Nitti (2012) provides an example of how a player would be affected, using maximum tax rates of 50%in the United Kingdom and 30% in the United States. Suppose Player X earns $8 million in salary with hisLondon-based team, and $5 million of his salary is earned in the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, asa non-resident player he will be taxed at 50% and owe $2.5 million. In the United States, as a U.S. citizen hewill owe federal tax at 30% on the full $8 million he earned. His U.S. tax bill would be $2.4 million. Hisforeign tax credit is limited to the $5 million he earned in the United Kingdom multiplied by his U.S. tax rateof 30%, or $1.5 million. Therefore, Player X would pay $900,000 to the United States ($2.4 million-$1.5million) and $2.5 million to the United Kingdom, for a total of $3.4 million and an effective tax rate of 42.5%.Therefore, according to laws in place in 2012, he would pay $1 million more in taxes than a player whoearned $8 million playing for a United States-based team. Add to this the fact that any endorsement incomethe player earned would be allocated to his U.K. earnings, according to the method previously discussed. Fora London-based team in a league with a hard salary cap, it might be difficult to attract talented free agents, asthe tax difference would reduce their net incomes significantly.
